In the quarrying, demolition, recycling, aggregates and associated industries, highly productive equipment is just the beginning of the story. How the customer’s investment is maintained and kept fully operational is essential for business viability. Sandvik Mobile Crushers and Screens have always set great store in not only making sure that customers get the right equipment to meet their needs, but also that parts and aftermarket support continue to help deliver growth. Whatever the business, and whatever the application, Sandvik Mobile Crushers and Screens has focused on delivering a superior customer experience and aftermarket care from the first enquiry, to spare parts delivery, to regular servicing and repairs. Sandvik recognises the residual value not only in the equipment supplied, but vitally, in how the customer investment is maintained. This has seen Sandvik concentrate efforts in the UK & Ireland to create maximum efficiency and productivity, ensuring that its customers are at the forefront of its business. Through skilled teams and pioneering digital solutions, Sandvik is available to provide its customers with the necessary support, information, training, service and part requirements in order that customers get the very best from their investments. World-class facilities and people Over the past 18 months, Sandvik has invested in not only facilities but also its people, focusing on recruiting the very best specialists to provide unparalleled levels of sales and aftermarket support, with the dedicated team being located throughout both islands. Andrew Haldane, Territory Sales Manager UK/Ireland says of these developments: “Our products are supported by a local sales and service team, who are experts in their professional field. From evaluating our customers’ initial requirements to providing dedicated aftermarket support, our customers have access to a wealth of information and assistance 24/7. Recent appointments to the team have strengthened our service across both islands and we have never been better positioned to offer our customers a new approach to their fleet.” Customer focus Sandvik Mobiles is proud of its work in tandem with its customers and considers them to be its partners, helping to ensure that the product lifecycle is at its optimum. Exeter based, BT Jenkins Ltd, recently acquired a new QE342 scalper to add to its extensive fleet of Sandvik mobile crushers and screeners. Commenting on the addition, Russell Lowton, operations manager, explains benefits gained for BT Jenkins in choosing a Sandvik machine. “We chose Sandvik due to the excellent back up they provide and we have experienced with our existing Sandvik crushers and screens.” Commonality of parts and services was also a major factor when choosing the Sandvik machine as Russell continues: “All our crushing and screening plant is now Sandvik. This means our operators are familiar with the kit and this cuts downtime which costs money.” To keep Sandvik equipment operating efficiently and at an optimum level, Sandvik has its Security+ packages to offer customers full peace of mind and confidence in their operation. Through these extended warranty agreements, customers can plan and manage their maintenance budget, with the reassurance that their machine is receiving the best support available with the added value of a full service history. With two levels available, Silver and Gold, customers are able to select the package which best suits their needs. Digitalization has also proved to be increasingly important to customers. Over the past couple of years, Sandvik has invested heavily into My Fleet, its telematics system which is now fitted to every unit leaving the factory in Northern Ireland. My Fleet has been purpose developed to help customers know exactly how their equipment is being utilized. Through the accurate monitoring of a wide array of parameters, this facilitates accurate production forecasting, ensuring that the most efficient use is obtained from equipment, thereby maximizing return on investment. Digitalization is also positively changing the way of working for many people within Sandvik Mobiles’ own sales network. More important than it has ever been before, Sandvik is well-positioned to support customers remotely. The company can offer advice to resolve any faults or issues with their equipment without having the need for an engineer present on the facility. Using telematics from My Fleet, Sandvik can ensure that operations both remotely and on-site results in a safer operation. Alongside additional safety measures that come as standard on all Sandvik products, data is available without anyone being at a physical machine. The actions of any Sandvik equipment can be monitored, with customers being notified of its status with any problems and/or alerts, being provided with advice to how to possibly resolve any fault. The viewing of operational data and the ability to use ‘geofence’ (a rental fleet and ordering of spares and service platform) digitally further enhances operational efficiency meaning that as well as ordering any parts, warranty registration is handled directly with your local service team, enabling a seamless user experience. Commenting on Sandvik’s approach, Russell says: “We have excellent lines of communication and back up from Sandvik. We use them for all our servicing and repairs; it is this service in the field that made the decision to buy the scalper screen from Sandvik an easy one. Reliability has been excellent.” Continuing development Sandvik Mobiles takes continuing pride in its digital innovation and optimizing solutions for customers through investing heavily in R&D and continuously developing the digital experience. Sandvik is committed to using engineering and innovation to make the shift that will drive more sustainable business, for example, less travel involved as remote data can be used effectively. Furthermore, new improvements and innovations are also being seen across the company’s sales and aftermarket service offering, ensuring that customer requirements can be dealt with more rapidly and efficiently than ever. This aim to lead the digital race within mobile crushing and screening through focusing on customer requirements is matched by the continuing development of Sandvik Mobile crushing and screening solutions to a rapidly growing industry. Sandvik Mobile Crushers and Screens has never been better positioned to support its customers’ growth.