Finnish technology company Outotec has secured a contract from South African gold miner Gold Fields to deliver minerals processing equipment for the latter’s Salares Norte mine in Chile. The Salares Norte project is a blind epithermal gold and silver deposit in the Atacama region of northern Chile. Valued at about €14m ($15.8m), the contract has been booked under the company’s Q2 2020 order intake. Under the work scope of the contract, Outotec will deliver one 4MW SAG mill, one 4MW Ball mill, five thickeners, as well as one clarifier to be used in various process phases. Our parent business intelligence company In a press statement, Outotec said: “Grinding mills are provided with Outotec Polymer Hydrostatic Shoe Bearing (HSB) system, which is fitted to all new Outotec grinding mills as a standard. The system is designed to maximize grinding mill availability and simplify maintenance.” According to the Finnish firm, both thickeners and clarifiers are modular designs of Outotec which enable reduced site installation time. Outotec’s Minerals Processing business head Paul Sohlberg said: “We are pleased to deliver our energy efficient and advanced process equipment to Gold Fields and support them in building profitable and sustainable operations in the challenging site location in high altitude.” Earlier this month, Outotec secured a contract from La Sino-Congolaise Des Mines (Sicomines) to deliver copper solvent extraction technology to Sicomines’ project near Kolwezi in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). Last month, Outotec and industrial machinery company Metso received an unconditional merger control clearance from the European Commission for the combination of Metso’s Minerals business with Outotec. In February this year, Outotec secured a contract from Emerald Resources NL subsidiary Renaissance Minerals to deliver process equipment to Okvau Gold Project in Cambodia.


										    
										    


										    		                                    
											
											jQuery( document ).ready(function() {
												/* Companies carousel */
												jQuery('.carousel').slick({
												  dots: true,
												  infinite: true,
												  speed: 300,
												  lazyLoad: 'ondemand',
												  slidesToShow: 1,
												  slidesToScroll: 1,
												  adaptiveHeight: true
												});
											});