Technology solutions provider ASI Mining has signed a subcontract with Epiroc to supply its autonomous haul truck solution to Roy Hill in Western Australia. This subcontract award follows the recent contract awarded to Epiroc to automate the Roy Hill iron ore mine in Western Australia. Under the existing contract, ASI Mining will supply the technology and systems to convert the iron ore miner’s mixed fleet of 77 haul trucks from manned to autonomous operation. Roy Hill is an iron ore mining operation in the Pilbara region of Western Australia. Its Perth-based remote operations centre provides end-to-end integration of operations. ASI Mining general manager Patrick Hald said: “Being chosen as the technology provider to Roy Hill is a testament that the market is eager to establish a more open and interoperable supplier in the AHS space, especially on retrofits, which will provide more flexibility than the traditional OEM offerings.” According to ASI Mining, the project will focus on the implementation of ASI’s Mobius solution which can be integrated with existing and future Roy Hill systems. The company noted that the project includes integration with Fleet and other mining management systems.   Is investing heavily in battery minerals a risk given the pace of EV technology change?  View Results In a press statement, ASI Mining said: “For vehicle conversions to Drive-by-Wire capability, ASI utilises its partner Danfoss, a major supplier of hydraulics and electronically controlled components for haul trucks, and recognised market-leading supplier of mobile systems to many mining equipment OEMs.” The project will see a phased implementation and involve an initial phase of testing and production verification of up to eight trucks. This phase will be implemented before the full fleet of the firm’s machines undergoes conversion from mid-next year. Last month, Vale selected Epiroc and Mobilaris Mining & Civil Engineering as partners to augment its digital capabilities in Canada.