Sandvik has launched its first automation-ready underground in-the-hole (ITH) longhole drill for production drilling, service support and mechanised slot raising. The DU412i drill rig is the first fully automated ITH longhole drill introduced by the company. It is used for various ITH applications. According to Sandvik, the V-30 head equipped DU412i rig introduces mechanised pipe handling in V–30 slot raising applications, a first in the global market. The rig achieves high drilling capacity in underground ITH drilling operations. It also provides mechanised reaming of Ø30in slot raises. It drills with ITH hammers that are powered by on-board high-pressure screw boosters. Sandvik noted that the DU412i has automation packages for repeating drilling cycles with speed and accuracy. It is also equipped with a new and improved user interface (UI) on the drill or in the remote-control location. The teleremote operating feature of the rig improves product safety and productivity, while radio-remote tramming enables the operator to safely tram the unit between fans and set it up precisely without being in the operation area.   The UK left the European Union on 31 January. Do you think this will be a positive or a negative for the UK mining industry?  View Results In a press statement, Sandvik said: “In the V-30 slot raising configuration, the unit is delivered with blind bore feed and split centraliser, spaced out RH6250 rotation head and PC225 carousel. The storing capacity of the carousel allows up to 40m of continuous drilling and slot raising. “The unit is fitted with KSU34 onboard booster (34m³/min @ 28 bar) and single-hole automation for Ø6½” pilot hole drilling and for reaming the pilot to Ø10” can be utilised. Pipe handling during reaming the raise to Ø30” with the V–30 head is mechanised.” In January this year, Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology announced that it will showcase several innovative solutions at CONEXPO-CON/AGG, which takes place in Las Vegas, USA, 10-14 March 2020.