Modular Mining, global leader in the delivery of real-time computer-based mine management solutions, installed its DISPATCH, ProVision, and MineCare systems at the Boliden Kevitsa mine in northern Finland. The DISPATCH Fleet Management System (FMS) and ProVision Machine Guidance System replaced previous technologies at the mine. The DISPATCH FMS will optimize the mine’s haulage cycle while the ProVision Excavator system assumes responsibility for machine guidance. In conjunction with regional Komatsu equipment dealer, Suomen Rakennuskone Oy (SR-O), Modular Mining also installed its MineCare system to bring Cloud-based, proactive, asset health monitoring and maintenance management capabilities to the Kevitsa operation. SR-O has also partnered with Modular Mining to provide ongoing service to Boliden. We’re very proud to be part of an integrated Komatsu solution that combines world-class equipment, strong local dealer support, and our all-makes technology,” said Greg Lanz, VP Business Development, Modular Mining. “It’s also very exciting to work with a passionate company like Boliden in our shared pursuit of sustainable mining.” Modular Mining’s solutions were selected to optimize haulage, improve loading accuracy, and increase availability, across more than 30 pieces of equipment in Kevitsa’s mixed-manufacturer fleet. The technologies will help the mine overcome challenges with material blending, material identification at the face, misdirected loads, payload production records, and operator training. Mine representatives cited Modular Mining’s relationship with Komatsu, as well as product flexibility and extensive range of add-on modules, as being key motivators in the choice to implement Modular Mining’s solutions. In addition, because the mine anticipates an eventual transition to autonomous operation, the DISPATCH FMS’ integration in Komatsu’s FrontRunner Autonomous Haulage System (AHS) also influenced the buying decision. Boliden is a metals company with a focus on sustainable development. The company’s core competence is within the fields of exploration, mining, smelting and metals recycling.