Indonesian mining firm Amman Mineral has placed an order with Forum Energy Technologies for a remotely operated vehicle (ROV) to be used at the Batu Hijau copper-gold project, Indonesia’s second-largest copper-gold mine. Oilfield products company Forum Energy Technologies will provide one of its observation-class ROVs to support operations at the mine. The ROV will be used for subsea mining operations. The Sub-Atlantic brand Super Mohawk II ROV system will be equipped with two five-function manipulator arms for complex underwater procedures. The system is suited for inspection and light work tasks including non-destructive testing, seabed analysis, scientific survey and data sample collection. Amman Mineral head of corporate communications Kartika Octaviana said: “The Super Mohawk II ROV will be used to perform regular deep-sea tailing placement monitoring programs to ensure that the marine environment is highly preserved. The use of high-tech and implementation of mining best practices demonstrate our commitments in environmental stewardship.” Forum Energy Technologies previously supplied an ROV to Batu Hijau under the mine’s previous owners, PT Newmont Nusa Tenggara. The new ROV system will be manufactured at Forum’s facility in Yorkshire, UK and delivered in the first quarter of next year. This will be the company’s 37th Super Mohawk system deployed for global operation. Forum Energy Technologies vice president for subsea vehicles Kevin Taylor said: “Forum has a strong reputation around the world for manufacturing high-quality, robust ROVs and associated auxiliary products for the oil and gas, renewables, navies, aquaculture and academic industries. This contract demonstrates the value our vehicles can offer to the mining community as well.   How concerned are you about spread of Coronavirus?  View Results “This is the second ROV we have delivered to Batu Hijau and I am looking forward to seeing our system delivering the required operational resilience and performance standards expected in such a safety-critical sector.”