Miner Elastomer Products Corporation (MEPC®) is excited to be showcasing our TecsPak® and EU-ROLLER™ products lines next week during CONEXPO-CON/AGG 2020. Our products will be on display at booth number F-101323 in the Festival Hall.  We will have our line of TecsPak® bumpers and springs, wheel chocks, EU-ROLLER™ conveyor idlers and TecsPak® vehicle suspensions on display.  All our TecsPak® products are manufactured in the United States and MEPC® is ISO: 9001 2015 certified. EU-ROLLER™ idlers are extremely dependable in the aggregates industry.  They can perform is harsh environments that operate in a lot of debris or dust. EU-ROLLER™ idlers are more cost-effective, durable, and energy-efficient than traditional conveyor belt rollers.  Their superior performance means reduced downtime due to failure and cost savings over the life of the conveyor.  Our EU-ROLLER™ uses quality bearings chosen to meet the requirements of any loading or transporting application. In order to protect and provide longevity for the bearings EU-ROLLER™ uses a proven patented bearing cap and seal design.  These design features allow the rollers to work in extreme operating conditions. These rollers meet CEMA 502-2016 standards and fit a wide variety of existing conveyor framework! Our axial and radial bumpers are ideal for any energy or shock-absorbing application that you may have. TecsPak® is ten times more durable than rubber and 20 times more durable than urethane and it can be used in virtually any application where the energy of motion needs to managed or controlled.  Our axial bumpers can withstand a peak force up to 19,000lb while our radial bumpers provide longer travel for a softer entry.  Our radial and axial bumpers are lightweight and can be easily mounted to your application. MEPC’s E-springs offer significantly greater energy absorption along with superior endurance and resilience compared to rubber, polyurethane and coiled steel springs.  TecsPak® springs are also a third of the weight and provide a cost-effective alternative to steel springs as well. TecsPak® heavy radial bumpers, radial tube and crane bumpers preform dependable in various industries due to their ability to perform in harsh working conditions.  TecsPak® will not dry rot or crack and is impervious to most chemicals and oils.  Also, our crane bumpers meet existing industry standards for OSHA and CMAA. If none of our general line products meets your performance requirements we can create a custom part for your application.  Our design engineers have experience in numerous industries and will be able to assist you in finding the right product for your energy management solution. Wheel Chocks are essential for any operation and they help keep your most valuable assets safe.  Miner Elastomer Products offers five different sized wheel chocks to fit the needs of your construction and aggerates operations.  Our smallest chocks can be used on utility vehicles while our larger chocks are meant for haul trucks. MEPC’s chocks are unique to the industry due to their design and durability. These chocks are lightweight and user-friendly because each chock has a handle on the back of the chock and wings on the side of the chock. Also, our largest chock only weighs 35lb. Since these chocks are lightweight and ergonomic the user can grab the chock from different angles for easy installation and removal.  Our chocks can also survive an accidentally run over due to their material composition.   All our wheel chocks meet the following OSHA and MSHA specifications: 1910.178(K) 1910.178(M) 30 CFR §56.14207. Our suspensions use our proprietary TecsPak® material as well.  These suspensions don’t use any oil or nitrogen and are virtually maintenance-free. Our suspension help keep your trucks running as long as possible so you can maximize your production time. See you at booth number F-101323 in the Festival Hall during the show!