Following successful exhibitions at both ConExpo 2014 and ConExpo 2017, and the increase in our operations across North America in recent years, CDE is looking forward to attending ConExpo 2020 where we will exhibit our latest range of wet processing solutions for the sand and aggregates, construction & demolition waste recycling, specialist sands, and mining industries. Our third attendance at this premier trade show promises to be another memorable one, as we welcome visitors to our 12,600ft² stand, the largest stand which CDE will have exhibited on at the ConExpo trade show. We look forward to welcoming visitors from North America, Central & South America, and indeed across the world, to the CDE stand across the five-day event. ConExpo 2020 will see the launch in the latest innovation in the CDE Combo all-in-one wet processing and water treatment system, while we will also showcase several new products at the show. Be sure to signup to our newsletter below to keep up to date with the latest announcements for ConExpo 2020. CDE to launch new Combo™ model at CONEXPO 2020 CDE is set to revolutionise the wet processing industry once more with the launch of the latest Combo™ all-in-one wet processing solution at CONEXPO-CON/AGG. The patented Combo™ was unveiled at bauma in April 2019, as the first fully integrated, modular, turnkey materials wet processing and water management solution for the production of premium manufactured sands. The latest model will have enhanced features, specifically designed to enable operators in the Americas to capitalise on new opportunities. Unrivalled fines separation and sand dewatering maximise yields with less than 15% moisture content, creating revenue straight from the belts to command the highest possible market price.
CDE is unlocking a New World of Resource, driving alternatives for sand production. We give our clients full production flexibility through customized solutions, that meet their needs and make commercial sense. If you are also attending ConExpo, make sure to include us in your show itinerary and visit us at stand S5435. To book a meeting with the CDE team at ConExpo 2020 and or to request a callback to learn more about our tailored finance solutions, complete the adjacent contact form. We are looking forward to meeting you in Las Vegas in March. Show Details: Show Hours Trade Show Location: