This research report has been commissioned by the Victorian Government Department of Sustainability and Environment (DSE) to compare the performance of two ‘6 Star’ equivalent buildings, which are identical in every way except for a cool roof coating on one. In this study, every variable has been either eliminated or fixed between the two study buildings, and this is the most accurate way of comparing the performance of the Cool Roof Paint (CRP) product directly. The results of this study once again prove the effectiveness of CRP’s in reflecting heat and lowering both external roof surface temperatures, as well as indoor temperatures. Most interestingly, this report also demonstrates a winter benefit to internal temperatures from the use of this particular product (Thermoshield). This benefit is most clearly seen as warmer internal temperatures at the coldest part of the day ( usually at night ), which suggests the product is reducing heat transfer through the roof. Such a result significantly increases the potential of these products for certain building types that require extra heat during the wintertime. Methodology This study is based on the field testing of two ½ scale buildings. These buildings have been constructed at the University of Melbourne’s Burnley campus in Melbourne, Australia. The two buildings have identical properties with the exception of the roof surface coating. Building H has the Thermoshield cool roof product applied to the concrete tile roof and Building J has an untreated charcoal coloured concrete tile roof. Both have the same orientation, the same design, the same materials, and were constructed to a BCA 6 Star equivalent standard. Design Buildings H and J are 2,000mm x 2,000mm x 2,250mm above ground, a single pitch roof, one window 600mm x 600mm facing North and one door 600mm x 1,850mm facing South. Field Results The results of the on-site measurements conducted between December 2011 and May 2012 have been separated into a summer (February 10 – 28) and winter (May 20 – 29) set for ease of analysis. These sets are the most suitable for analysis for a number of reasons (eg. the periods are close to the warmest and coldest periods, as well as covering periods of dramatic outdoor temperature and radiation differences ) and allow a closer look at the performance of the tested product.