Under the lead management of FAM, on 18 December 2019, the FAM-Actemium Consortium transferred to MIBRAG (Mitteldeutsche Braunkohlengesellschaft mbH) the fourth expansion stage (construction complex B) including the distributor/drive station No. 521 and the second expansion No. 521 for power operation of the Peres mass distributor. This allowed, in December 2019, for extraction of the first coal from a deeper-lying “cut” in the Peres mining field of the “Vereinigtes Schleenhain” opencast mine which supplies coal to the Lippendorf power plant. On Januar 29, 2015, Mitteldeutsche Braunkohlengesellschaft mbH (MIBRAG) commissioned FAM, Magdeburger Förderanlagen und Baumaschinen GmbH, together with our consortium partner, ACTEMIUM, to erect the new Peres mass distributor. The plant is designed for exploring a new mining field in the Vereinigtes Schleenhain opencast lignite mine. The project, scheduled for completion by 2023, is of particular importance to FAM to further strengthen the long-term relationship with the client. After Schwerzau and Schleenhain, Peres is the third mass distributor that FAM has erected for MIBRAG. At present, the project is one of the few large-scale projects in Germany. The investment, as well as the commissioning of FAM, will help secure jobs, especially in Saxony-Anhalt, in the long-term. In Saxony-Anhalt alone, some 7,000 jobs directly or indirectly depend on coal mining. As the logistical heart of the opencast mine, the mass distributor is the decisive hub for distributing overburden and coal to the respective belt conveyors. It consists of six stationary belt conveyors with shifting heads that can optionally load three collecting belts for onward transport. The A721 drive station is also part of the package. The erection of the Peres mass distributor comprises the complete planning, design, manufacture, assembly, and commissioning of the system by construction engineering, steel and machine-building and electrical engineering and control technology specialists. The A721 was completely manufactured and pre-assembled at FAM’s headquarters in Magdeburg and transported in large, pre-assembled units to its final destination. On June 7, 2016, the mechanical and electrical components of the A721 drive station were symbolically completed. This was an important step to link the Peres excavation field in the Vereinigtes Schleenhain opencast mine. The belt conveyor 721 provides a direct connection between the new mass distributor and the Lippendorf power station. Erecting the mass distributor has posed great challenges to all involved. Within an extremely short period of time, some 9,000 m³ of concrete, 5,000 tons of steel and machine-building components, and 100 km of cable have to be processed, transported and assembled, requiring a high level of coordination among all teams involved to be able to complete all project phases in time. Thanks to excellent and close cooperation among all project participants, it was possible to master these challenges.