Exploration and development firm Bluejay Mining has secured a new mineral exploration licence surrounding its existing Kangerluarsuk zinc-lead-silver (Zn-Pb-Ag) project in central-west Greenland. The new licence, which covers 586km², has expanded the project licence area to 692km². Bluejay’s Kangerluarsuk project is located within the Karrat Group, which is a major Palaeoproterozoic sedimentary basin with significant Zn-Pb-Ag results. The first phase sampling programme of the new licence area is expected to commence this year. The field season will include a low-cost maiden drilling campaign, targeting known zinc, silver, lead, silver and copper occurrences, which have correlations with the neighbouring former Black Angel Zn-Pb-Ag mine. Located 10km south of Bluejay’s new licence area, the Black Angel mine produced 11 million tonnes (Mt) grading 12.6% zinc, 4.1% lead and 29 grams per tonne (g/t) silver when in operation by Cominco and Boliden until 1990. The company noted that its existing 106km² exploration licence at Kangerluarsuk was acknowledged by the Geological Survey of Denmark and Greenland as Greenland’s strongest cluster of stream sediment zinc anomalies. Bluejay Mining CEO Roderick McIllree said: “We are delighted to have been granted this new licence area at Kangerluarsuk. Our decision to increase our landholding by over five-fold is testament to our confidence in the licence’s prospectivity. “With this in mind, we are excited to commence our 2020 field season.  This includes a relatively low-cost maiden drilling campaign (subject to MLSA approval) which will target known zinc, silver, lead, silver and copper occurrences that have correlations with the neighbouring former Black Angel zinc-lead-silver mine.” In September 2019, Bluejay Mining formally lodged its exploitation licence application to the Mineral Licence and Safety Authority, Greenland (MLSA), for the Dundas Ilmenite project. In the same year, Bluejay Mining signed an agreement with Rio Tinto Iron and Titanium Canada (RTIT) to further analyse Ilmenite from its Dundas project.