Liberty Industrial’s Munmorah Power Station Removal Project has been selected as the winner for the Industrial Demolition Award at the 2019 World Demolition Awards. The award-winning project involved the removal of a 1400MW coal-fired power station. The project is the largest power station demolition project to be carried out in Australia to date. The works included more than 890 tonnes of bonded and friable asbestos removal, involving extensive negative air enclosures erected throughout the floors of the 60m-high boilers, and asbestos removal via rope access from the twin 155m-high chimney stacks. Liberty Industrial carried out three key explosive demolition events during the course of the power station’s removal including the explosive demolition of the twin 155m-high chimney stacks and the demolition of the power station four boilers – which are the largest boilers demolished in Australia to date. Liberty Industrial mobilised an impressive array of plant and equipment to undertake the project, including a custom-built 230t Liebherr 994 excavator, modified to accommodate the world largest demolition shear, which was put to work processing large structural steel members associated with the heavy boilers, turbine hall, precipitators and filter fabric structures. The removal of the power station was carried out safely, sustainably, and in accordance with stakeholder expectations. More than 100,000 tonnes of waste was recycled throughout the course of the project. This is the fifth World Demolition Award that Liberty Industrial has been awarded during the past seven years. The first Australian company ever to reach the finals of the World Demolition Awards when their Boodarie Hot Briquette Iron Closure project was shortlisted as a finalist in 2012, Liberty Industrial have won five World Demolition Awards and been shortlisted as a finalist an impressive 15 times since. Held in Boston this year, the annual event is the major international awards event celebrating excellence and innovation within the demolition industry. Directors, Clinton Dick and Simon Gill attended the ceremony in Boston. Liberty Industrial director Clinton Dick said he was impressed with the high calibre of entries and was pleased to see Liberty Industrial receive recognition for their industrial demolition capability. “It’s a high standard of competition. It’s nice to be recognised by our industry peers for our industrial demolition capability which is our core capability and the foundation of our business.” Liberty Industrial Director, Simon Gill said that in addition to winning the Industrial Demolition Award, Liberty Industrial was also successful in three other award categories. “Liberty Industrial were finalists in four award categories this year. This is a reflection of the high standard of projects that we are delivering for our clients throughout Australia.” “Well done to our project teams for this outstanding achievement. It is wonderful justification for their dedication, hard work and ingenuity,” added Gill.