Atlas Copco Power and Flow has completed its portfolio of WEDA electric submersible dewatering pumps. They have achieved this comprehensive coverage by completing the ranges for drainage and sludge applications and adding a completely new range for slurry applications. Selection from the entire, expanded range is simplified as all models are classified by application and type of fluid that they handle. The range now comprises three families; the expanded WEDA D for dewatering, WEDA S – also expanded – for sludge and the entirely new WEDA L slurry family. WEDA D pumps handle either clean or dirty water, even with small solids. The WEDA S range supports dewatering of liquid sludge containing larger solids. The WEDA L products are the toughest, and have the largest apertures to facilitate handling of slurry with the most challenging solids. The WEDA D family expansion is marked by the D80, a new model for dewatering. S30, and S60, as the new models for the WEDA S sludge family, can handle thick, soft, wet mud or other similarly viscous mixtures of liquids and solids, especially the product of an industrial or refining process. The completely new WEDA L family handles semi-liquid slurry mixtures, typically of fine particles of manure, cement or coal, and water. Aside from optimising their performance, a lot of focus has been given to make the pumps lighter, enhance electrical safety, improve the seal design and ease installation. All pumps in the D and S range are available with WEDA+ features, which include phase failure protection, rotation control, thermal switches and a 20m cable with phase shifter plug for all three-phase pumps. The WEDA+ features are also available as an option on the L range. Overall, the WEDA D pumps, which use top-discharge, can handle water of specific gravity to 1,100kg/m³, and, depending on model, solids of 4mm – 12mm diameter. The bottom side discharging WEDA S pumps’ capabilities extend to water with specific gravity to 1,400kg/m³, and solids of 25mm – 50mm, depending on model. The WEDA L pumps, which also use bottom side discharge, handle water of specific gravity up to 1,700kg/m³, and, depending on model, solids of 20mm – 60mm diameter. The pumps’ specifications equip them well for an extensive range of dewatering applications; they provide the performance, reliability and ease of use and maintenance essential to users across multiple industries. All models feature a built-in starter and motor protection system along with optional automatic level control. Adjustable wear-resistant rubber diffusers and hardened high-chrome impellers ensure durability in tough environments. “The WEDA pumps can handle flow rates of up to 16,500l/min, with power ratings up to 54kW,” explains Hrishi Kulkarni, Product Manager, Atlas Copco Power and Flow division. “Accordingly, they make ideal dewatering solutions across many, diverse applications within the construction, industrial, emergency and maintenance sectors. Now, our ubiquitous coverage has been highlighted by these latest additions to the range, as they make our portfolio complete.” Handling and transportation are considerably eased by the pumps’ weight, which is 20 per cent lower than competitor products; an advantage which makes them especially attractive for rental use. Ease of operation is carefully balanced with high performance, with some models’ ability to pass solids of up to 2in through the pump. An improved aluminium alloy provides higher corrosion resistance across all applications, while reinforced cable entries assure higher resistance to water leakage. Uptime is maximized through several measures. All pumps have seal types appropriate to their size, and an external plug for grease filling or an oil inspection plug for easy maintenance. With many connection options and sizes, discharge connections are adjustable, with flow direction changeable from 90-180 degrees. WEDA pump users are supported by a wide network of dealers and service technicians, as well as readily available parts.