Stainless steel manufacturing firm Outokumpu has selected mining automation company Sandvik to deliver OptiMine digital platform to drive digitalisation. The platform will be used as an underground operations management system to improve productivity at Outokumpu’s Kemi mine in Finland. The site has been using several solutions for managing underground operations for more than a decade and is a leader in mine digitalisation. It is located 20km from Outokumpu’s Tornio Works. All mining operations at Kemi take place underground. Under the contract, Sandvik OptiMine will replace several existing systems and integrate them as a single solution at the Kemi mine, which is a source of chromite ore. The agreement also comprises a Newtrax tag-based personnel and vehicle positioning solution. Outokumpu Ferrochrome business area senior vice-president Martti Sassi said: “One of the key elements of digitalisation at Kemi mine is improving the situational picture. By visualising mine operations and conditions in real-time, we are enabling well-timed decision making and forecasting.   The UK left the European Union on 31 January. Do you think this will be a positive or a negative for the UK mining industry?  View Results “Sandvik OptiMine and Newtrax positioning solutions will have a major role in Kemi Mine’s underground operations scheduling, task management and visualisation.” Sandvik will support Outokumpu throughout the implementation of the OptiMine solution at the Kemi mine. It will also provide support and after commissioning. Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology Automation vice-president Riku Pulli said: “OptiMine is known for its exceptional performance in demanding mining conditions. The scalability and productivity increase capabilities of the OptiMine platform have made it the technology of choice for a multitude of mines. “We are delighted to leverage our experience to deliver safe and reliable technologies in line with Kemi Mine’s production demands. Sandvik has the right global expertise and strong local support to help keep mines up and running safely and productively at all times.” In November 2019, Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology unveiled new 2711 class narrow size drills. Sandvik Mining and Rock Technology is a business area within the Sandvik Group.