With Bolivian President Evo Morales forced from office in November, could government policy over the country’s massive lithium reserves at the Salar de Uyuni salt flats be about to change? We profile the Bolivian mining sector post-Morales and ask if change is on the horizon. We also investigate the ICA’s new global standard for copper production, and look at some of the potential mining hubs in Asia other than China. Plus, we examine ZImbabwe’s ‘use it or lose it’ policy for mining assets, explore mining mysteries yet to be resolved, and see what lessons can be learnt from the Burkina Faso attack. Finally, we discover the potential of block caving, and consider the impact of the US House’s vote to ban all uranium mining near the Grand Canyon. Click here to read the latest mining industry news and analysis, and join the conversation on Twitter. Bolivia: will the ousting of Morales open lithium to foreign investment? Lithium-rich Bolivia has been thrown into political turmoil after its longstanding president, socialist Evo Morales, was exiled to Argentina amid vote rigging accusations. How will these events and upcoming elections impact the development of the country’s abundant lithium reserves? Heidi Vella profiles the Bolivian mining sector post-Morales. Read more.   The UK left the European Union on 31 January. Do you think this will be a positive or a negative for the UK mining industry?  View Results Inside the ICA’s new global standard for sustainable copper production The International Copper Association has announced its creation of the ‘Copper Mark’, a global standard to ensure responsible production and trading of copper. Inspired by the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, the mark is to be launched this year. Scarlett Evans finds out why legitimising the copper industry is so important. Read more. Beyond China: five up-and-coming mining hubs in Asia While China dominates the field as a mining superpower and minerals exporter, there are several other countries in Asia ready to step up to the global stage. Yoana Cholteeva looks at some of the other growing mining hubs in the region and their successful development. Read more. Mining in Zimbabwe: time to use it or lose it Between colonial intervention and a weak regulatory framework, mining in Zimbabwe has struggled to live up to its potential. With the government cracking down on undeveloped licenses, and aiming to force companies to “use it or lose it”, JP Casey considers the history of mining in Zimbabwe, and who the winners and losers of the new policy could be. Read more. The mining mysteries yet to be resolved Despite significant investment and great strides in new technologies, mining and mining exploration can still be an unpredictable industry. From recent scientific discoveries to still-unexplained spikes in commodity prices, JP Casey considers some of the biggest mysteries in mining. Read more. Managing security risks in mining In November, local gunmen killed 37 employees of Canadian miner Semafo while travelling to work at the Boungou mine in Burkina Faso. JP Casey speaks to Martin Taylor, associate director at security firm AKE International, and Charles Dumbrille, president of the Mining Security Working Group, about the risks faced by mining majors operating in foreign countries. Read more. Inside block caving: the deep mining method of the future? More and more mining companies are using big data and block caving to open up a wealth of new discoveries. Yoana Cholteeva speaks with Professor Fidelis Suorineni from the Nazarbayev University School of Mining and Geosciences in Kazakhstan about the use and potential of the block caving method. Read more. Uranium mining at the Grand Canyon: environmental threat or critical for US security? The US is contemplating an end to any new uranium mining near the Grand Canyon, Arizona, and the extension of a temporary ban put in place in 2012. While the environmental benefits will be substantial, the law could severely impact the country’s uranium mining prospects. Yoana Cholteeva considers the issues surrounding the ban. Read more. As the mining industry booms, so do the number of disputes. To find out more about the risks and issues mining companies face, and to what extent external arbitration can be of help, we spoke to experts from law firm Faegre Baker Daniels. We also ask if there is middle ground to be found in the ASARCO copper mine strikes and profile Equatorial Guinea’s new exploration agreements for six deposits. Plus, we investigate the fraught world of mining insurance, hear from DeepGreen about their efforts in mining the ocean floor, and catch up with progress at the Thorny River project. Finally, we speak to NexTech AR Solutions and Romios Gold Resources about their partnership to develop 3D core samples in AR and assess whether Canada is turning away from mining. 