Sign up here for GlobalData's free bi-weekly Covid-19 report on the latest information your industry needs to know. Samsung Securities, the investment arm of South Korean conglomerate Samsung, will no longer provide financial backing for Adani Mining’s coal port in Queensland, Australia, and will not provide financial backing for any of the miner’s coal projects. The move comes after protesters targeted Samsung over its ties to the controversial Carmichael coal mine. It represents another hit to Adani following waves of protests against the company and companies associated with it due to Adani’s controversial Carmichael coal mine in Queensland and the mine’s associated infrastructure. Carmichael is a proposed thermal coal mine in the Galilee Basin in Central Queensland, which has been approved by the Queensland and federal governments. The proposed mine would become Australia’s largest coal mine, and one of the largest coal mines in the world. The project has been highly controversial, with disputes over its claimed economic benefits, financial viability and environmental damage. The #StopAdani campaign is staunchly opposed to Carmichael, claiming that if Carmichael goes ahead, it will destroy the ancestral lands, waters and cultures of Indigenous people without their consent, increase shipping traffic through the Great Barrier Reef heritage area and add around 4.7bn tonnes of carbon pollution to the atmosphere over its 60-year lifespan. According to a Greenpeace report, the carbon dioxide output from Carmichael would exceed the annual emissions from fuel combustion in several countries, with peak production of 60mtpa surpassing the emissions of both Vietnam and Belgium. The economic benefits to Queensland and wider Australia have long been touted by Adani and pro-Carmichael politicians, in December 2014 the CEO of Adani Mining, Jeyakumar Janakaraj, claimed the mine would create 10,000 jobs – a figure cited by former Australian Prime Minister Tony Abbott as evidence the mine would be good for the country. The figure was disputed, with Adani Mining accused of providing misleading information about the project. In June 2019 it was estimated the number of ongoing, operational jobs at Carmichael would be somewhere between 800 and 1,500. All vehicles used at the mine will be capable of automation, with a view to making the entire operation autonomous from mine to port. More than 30 financial institutions have refused to finance the project, which was initially forecast as an AUD16.5bn ($11.5bn) development. In 2018, Adani downsized the project to AUD2bn ($1.3bn) and announced the project would be self-funded. Both the Queensland and federal governments have proposed various subsidies and other forms of assistance for the project. The mine has drawn scepticism over its financial viability, with concerns over the structural decline in seaborne coal markets combined with Adani’s difficulty raising capital for the project. In 2015, South Korean conglomerate LG announced they would not proceed with a contract to buy coal from the mine. Most of the coal would be purchased by Adani in India. Samsung Securities’ decision to pull support for the project is just the latest in several contracts that have been targeted by environmental activists or by the #StopAdani campaign, intending to dismantle support for Carmichael and make it unviable. The campaigns have made the project toxic to be associated with, hence the scale of companies pulling support. The #StopAdani campaign has taken credit for convincing more than 65 companies to pull support for the project, including global banks, insurers, and long-time Adani contractor, engineering firm GHD.   Commodity production in which of the following countries will be impacted least by COVID-19 in 2020  View Results Several companies have pulled support for Carmichael citing wider environmental concerns around coal and as such do not lend support to any coal projects, but it has generally been the opposition to Adani that has driven these changes of policy. Insurance company Allianz “no longer offers single-site/stand-alone insurance coverages related to the construction and/or operation of lignite/coal-fired power plants and mines where lignite/coal is extracted”, the firm announced in April 2020. Global banks including Goldman Sachs, HSBC, JPMorgan Chase and more have ruled out financing coal projects with specific references to Adani Mining’s activities. The #StopAdani campaign has been creative in its methods of protest, organising marches and demonstrations against specific companies associated with the Carmichael project, as well as using social media to great effect, both in raising awareness of anti-Adani campaigns as well as directing social media centred protests at Adani and its associated companies. #StopAdani is not a centralised movement, and comprises thousands of individual activists and community groups across Australia, giving the movement a degree of versatility that has so far made it difficult for corporations like Adani to effectively counter. Carmichael retains the backing of both the Queensland and Australian governments and is a project Adani is determined to see through, but it is set to be a difficult road ahead for the coal project.


										    
										    


										    		                                    
											
											jQuery( document ).ready(function() {
												/* Companies carousel */
												jQuery('.carousel').slick({
												  dots: true,
												  infinite: true,
												  speed: 300,
												  lazyLoad: 'ondemand',
												  slidesToShow: 1,
												  slidesToScroll: 1,
												  adaptiveHeight: true
												});
											});