Flexco recently announced the relocation of its Flexco Europe location. The company will stay in Rosenfeld, Germany, but has constructed a larger building to address existing space constraints and to allow for future growth of the operation. “The reasons behind our decision to build it were complex. We have always pursued the goal of becoming the most important contact in the sector for operations who want to maximize the productivity of their conveyor systems. The new building will help us to achieve this goal, because it has the space that allows us to manufacture new, innovative products that solve our customers’ biggest conveyor challenges – and we’ll also be able to offer our customers the best possible support in our modern Training Center,” Joerg Schairer, Managing Director of Flexco Europe GmbH., said. The facility is 10,741m² with 3,200m² dedicated to administrative functions, while the other 7,500m² houses production, storage, and shipping. The location more than doubles the size of all departments and provides opportunities for workforce expansion. “The new facility gives us space for more than 100 attractive jobs,” Schairer said. “We have increased our workforce by 15% in the past 12 months, and in the future, will be doubling the number of apprenticeships we offer.” New building design With the construction of the new building, Flexco was looking for a more modern, open design that would optimize the exchange of information between its employees and customers. Since Flexco has a long history of manufacturing innovative, high-quality products, the design team wanted to make sure the use of modern technologies were high on the list of requirements. The resulting facility encompasses all these features, with more to come. “We’ll be developing the site into one of the most modern Competence Centers in Europe for belt conveyor productivity in a variety of industries and applications,” Schairer said. “We understand the challenges of customers – from food, to parcel handling, to laundry, to mining, and more – and support them in finding safer, more efficient solutions. Flexco University, online training courses, webinars, on-site training, and industrial networks are just a few of the offerings through which our customers can benefit from our experience and know-how.” The decision to stay in Rosenfeld The Flexco team is excited to remain in Rosenfeld, a community that has provided great talent and dedication to the company. “We have many experienced employees on the Rosenfeld site, and we don’t want to do without their expertise in the future, which is why we’ve remained here and chosen a local site for the new building,” Schairer said. “For Flexco, quality has always been more important than every single cent of production costs. Staying here at Rosenfeld means that we can continue to enjoy the advantages of the Neckar-Alb economic region, the ideal transport connections, and a network of valued suppliers and partners.”