Maptek is delivering a series of free online sessions to help users and industry figures experience the latest in Maptek products, innovations and solutions to solve their mining challenges. Maptek technical specialists are sharing their knowledge on the latest workflows and automation options that can be applied to daily tasks. All sessions can be accessed on the Maptek website. The 2020 sessions build on popular technology forums held by the company in Brisbane, Perth, Singleton, Moranbah and Emerald last year, but naturally, the current sessions are hosted online and tailored to help people work from home supported by productivity tips and instructional handouts. “Last year, it was great to catch up with customers in person and while we’re finding there’s strong engagement with this year’s sessions, I think we’re all missing the networking that happens over a drink at the end of the day,” Maptek Global Marketing Communications Manager, Jane Ball said. “We’re doing our best to make the online experience as personable as possible – even if we can’t gather together – and provide new ways of thinking about mining processes. “When we delivered our session on grade control, we wanted to remove the notion that it is an isolated aspect of mine planning. Decisions around where ore and waste are sent are vital for overall mine profitability,’ she added. ‘However, updating the grade control block model does come at the most time-critical part of the modelling process and it is one of the areas where we are focused on adding value. “When considering grade control in the context of the wider mining value chain it’s clear how important drill and blast workflows are to ensure the correct geological data is used.” The first session of the series explained how an innovative approach to charge design allows for dynamic changes in the field based on pit observations. Updating blast designs based on the real-world conditions pit is valuable for blast crews and blast engineers, and attendees saw the benefits for shotfirers, geologists and geotechnical engineers. Safety and efficiency are critical across the board for mining processes so an introduction to Inter-Ramp Compliance reporting tool targeted mine conformance to design and was complemented by a practical guide to automated workflows for processing and modelling point cloud data. ‘There’s already been huge value offered in the first few sessions, which are available to view online for free, and there’s lots more to come,’ Ball said. Mine scheduling forums about how to take your short-term planning to the next level and running scenarios based on cut-off grade optimisation and sequencing to maximise NPV will be delivered this month. Optimising on pit design with Vulcan will follow in June along with an open industry discussion forum on machine learning. More topics will be added weekly and recordings are available to stream on demand. Sessions are also being run in the Americas time zone to suit attendees in the region.