Schneider Electric, the leader in digital transformation of energy management and automation, and AVEVA, the global leader in engineering and industrial software, has announced their expanded partnership to deliver innovative solutions for the data center market. As hyperscale providers build data centers with an expanding fleet to meet worldwide demand, the complexities to operate and maintain these facilities are creating an unprecedented set of challenges. Operating at this scale requires a different approach for mission critical facilities powering the globe’s digital infrastructure. The combination of AVEVA’s scalable industrial software with Schneider Electric’s EcoStruxure™ for Data Centers control and monitoring capabilities enables both deep and expansive visibility to day-to-day operations. Deployment of the solution will be led by Schneider Electric with the support of a joint team of Schneider Electric and AVEVA data center solution architects. The new joint solutions provide a homogenous view of engineering, operations, and performance across a heterogenous, legacy installed base. Hyperscale data center providers will benefit from this partnership by connecting platforms and data sets that previously existed in disparate systems. They will also be able to scale regardless of number of sites or global location. Data center staff will be empowered to make faster, more informed decisions and optimize asset and operational efficiency throughout the data center lifecycle. As a result, data center providers can deliver a globally consistent experience to address the expanding digital infrastructure needs of their clients. “At a time when the world’s digital infrastructure is being pushed to its limits, Schneider and AVEVA are delivering a comprehensive solution for hyperscale data centers to operate and maintain their critical environments,” said Philippe Delorme, Executive Vice President of Energy Management at Schneider Electric. “The solution can take data that has long been managed at individual data centers, often in siloed sub-systems, normalize it across multiple sites and can ultimately inform and provide enterprise level IT/OT/IoT integration to deliver real-time decision making. The complete solution will deliver operational efficiency and a more reliable data center fleet.” “AVEVA and Schneider Electric’s unique partnership is already delivering tremendous value for our industrial customers across the board,” said Craig Hayman, CEO, AVEVA. “It is a major strategic milestone for us to extend the partnership into new markets and reach more clients, combining AVEVA’s strong heritage of delivering end- to- end unified solutions with Schneider Electric’s deep data center expertise and global execution capabilities. Our joint customers are empowered by the standardized systems and processes resulting in improved workforce efficiency across multiple sites and the entire enterprise.”