Mining projects present a cluster of risks, with many sources of potential disputes between miners, their partners and host nations. We ask, what are some of the leading drivers of international arbitration proceedings in the mining industry? We also discover who is setting the standard in terms of technology, responsibility and legislation when it comes to sand mining, examine whether the mining supply chain is fit for purpose in the face of crisis, and look at Zambia’s attempts to formalise artisanal gold mining. We also investigate the health risk posed by dust inhalation, round up technologies designed to improve ventilation underground, learn about Hexagon’s online training course for modern mining, and break down everything you need to know about coal mining in 2020. Whether you are on a desktop, tablet or smartphone, you can read the magazine for free online, and join the conversation on Twitter. Our parent business intelligence company International arbitration: the key themes leading to mining disputes Mining projects present a cluster of risks, with many sources of potential disputes between miners, their partners and host nations. Chris Lo asks, what are some of the leading drivers of international arbitration proceedings in the mining industry? Read more.   Do you see impact on recruitment in your company due to COVID-19 pandemic?  View Results Six things you need to know about sand mining Think of the materials we mine, and you’ll probably think first of gold and other precious metals, of coal, of base metals like nickel and of battery metals like lithium. You probably won’t think of sand, but those tiny grains form a large part of the most heavily mined commodity on the planet: aggregate. Matthew Hall breaks down everything you need to know about sand mining. Read more. State of emergency: how vulnerable is the mining supply chain? The coronavirus pandemic has proven devastating not just to healthcare systems but also in its impact on manufacturing and financial markets. Scarlett Evans examines the mining supply chain to see whether it is fit for purpose in the face of crisis, and looks at what moves have already been made to strengthen the industry in the pandemic’s wake. Read more. Zambia: bringing order to an unregulated gold rush Many developing nations have tried and failed to formalise artisanal mining, but could Zambia have better luck with a new strategy of buying gold directly from informal miners? Heidi Vella investigates. Read more. Black lung is back: why more is needed to fight mining dust Despite improvements in health and safety in US mining, dust inhalation remains a real threat, with black lung seeing a resurgence in cases. JP Casey speaks to the Mine Safety and Health Administration about this challenge, and how it aims to tackle it. Read more. Five key innovations in mining ventilation Traditional mining ventilation systems have always had to balance energy usage and costs, environmental impacts, and worker safety. Has this requirement been a barrier to innovation? Matthew Hall looks at some of the leading technologies in the field. Read more. ABB on remote connectivity and digital mining services amid Covid-19 With coronavirus putting further emphasis on the importance of digital operations in all sectors, including mining, there has never been a stronger need for the industry to create modern mining solutions in order to improve remote working. Yoana Cholteeva speaks to ABB mining VP global product manager Max Luedtke about the potential of remote mining. Read more. Seven things you should know about coal mining in 2020 Dynamics in the coal energy sector have recently undergone some unusual changes. From declining coal industry jobs under the Trump administration in the US to investments in clean coal technologies, Yoana Cholteeva breaks down everything you need to know about the commodity in 2020. Read more. Gold is traditionally viewed as a safe haven for investors in times of economic turmoil and it is no different during Covid-19. So has there been a knock on for miners? We look at the near future outlook for gold mining. We also investigate the case against a Canadian miner being sued for violations of international law, assess whether Covid-19 could kick-start a new revolution in digital mining, and see how the Trans-Tasman court case could impact future offshore mining projects in New Zealand. We also look at how the industry has rallied to help during Coid-19, speak to Speedcast about ‘connected mines’, hear from Mineworx about the post-market recovery of PGMs, and consider Wärtsilä’s plans in Saudi Arabia.


										    




										    		                                    
											
											jQuery( document ).ready(function() {
												/* Companies carousel */
												jQuery('.carousel').slick({
												  dots: true,
												  infinite: true,
												  speed: 300,
												  lazyLoad: 'ondemand',
												  slidesToShow: 1,
												  slidesToScroll: 1,
												  adaptiveHeight: true
												});
											});