Intelligent positioning solutions provider Position Partners announces the expansion of its South East Asia operations, with the addition of local expertise in Malaysia. The company will offer Topcon machine control, GPS and total station solutions for civil infrastructure and building projects, with a range of complementary systems from other leading suppliers. “Our Malaysia team has extensive experience with Topcon grade control and 3D GPS positioning technology, with the ability to support sitewide solutions for the construction industry,” said Martin Nix, Position Partners CEO. “With additional support via our remote access platform Tokara, Malaysia customers will have both local expertise and the ability to tap into the wider group’s technical knowledgebase. If the situation called for it, a Position Partners technician could support the customer from another hub in Indonesia, Singapore, Philippines, Australia or New Zealand,” he added. Position Partners is an Australian-owned company that has more than 30 years’ experience with laser levels, machine control, GPS and positioning technology. As the exclusive Australian distributor for Topcon machine control and survey systems, the company also operates throughout New Zealand and South East Asia with branches in Indonesia, Singapore and the Philippines. The company will offer Topcon and aLine laser levels to the Malaysian construction sector. These tools are used for a wide range of earthworks, concreting, plumbing and building tasks to provide accurate height and slope measurements. 2D and 3D grade control technology is used on excavators, dozers, graders and other heavy earthmoving equipment, enabling the operator to get to grade quickly and accurately without rework and wasted materials. “Topcon construction solutions are trusted worldwide for their reliability and easy to use components, that can be swapped between machines so contractors can make their investment go further,” said Mathew Connelly, Position Partners South East Asia Manager. Complimenting the Topcon range is a new innovative 2D excavator grade control system called iDig. The solution gives excavator operators real-time depth, slope and distance to grade information and is ideally suited to a wide range of construction jobs. “iDig can be fitted to any make or model of excavator and is extremely cost-effective,” Mr Connelly added. “It is an ideal choice for contractors that are new to grade control technology and looking for something simple but effective.” For mining and quarrying applications, Position Partners offers RDS on-board weighing technology, along with fleet management systems and high precision machine guidance. With a proven track record on large-scale infrastructure projects in Asia including the fourth runway at Singapore’s Changi airport and expansion of Hong Kong airport, Position Partners supports contracting companies large and small with reliable systems that save time, reduce rework and increase productivity. For more information, please contact Position Partners.